res

Since 2017, when I have submitted my materials for promotion to associate
professor with tenure, I have published 36 peer reviewed articles, including 7
in Cities, a journal with impact factor
(IF)=7.8, higher than widely considered the top journal in public
administration in the US, Public Administration Review with
IF=6.2.(https://www.scimagojr.com/journalsearch.php?q=16956&tip=sid
and https://www.scimagojr.com/journalsearch.php?q=17167&tip=sid).
4 articles are in Social Indicators Research (out of which 1
provinsionally accepted/minor revisions), and 9 in Applied Research in
Quality of Life, both leading/main journals in my field.



fut

Near future trajectory goal remians similar:  >= 3 papers per
year in good journals. In addition to European and North American focus I plan to add
Latin American focus. I plan to spend more time on grant writing as I
plan to grow my research group, hire students and post-docs, and do
course buy-outs.



tea


I am 2025 recipient of department's  Jay A Sigler award for
``outstanding service and dedication to students'' (awarded by
students); the plaque says ``this award is given to the faculty member
who exhibits a commitment to student's academic development and
personal growth.''


Since 2020, I graduated 4 PhDs, they all have a job. One is at SIPRI (Stockholm
International Peace Research Institute), a think-tank ranked 11th or 31st
worldwide (https://thinktankalert.com/rankings and https://guides.library.upenn.edu/c.php?g=1035991&p=7509972). Another one
at Virginia Tech and the other 2 were employed at Rutgers when graduated.  

My students publish. Since 2020, I have published 10 peer-reviewed papers with my
students (9 published and 1 provinsionally accepted/minor revisions) in
good journals including 3 in top ranked Cities with Impact Factor of 7.8.

 I make sure i am available and approachable for students spending extra time
outside of classroom: working on papers, being accessible via zoom and in
person, including when on sabbatical. Now in Spring 2026 I am on
sabbatical, but I still have 4 students enrolled in my dissertation hours, and I
 work with others on papers.

One highlight is unusually heavy curriculum development. Since coming to
Rutgers-Camden in 2012, I have taught over 10 different classes, developed from scratch
most of them, including 3 courses in 2023 for our new data science program.
 I am updating my teaching materials each time I teach a class.
 
 I strive to improve my teaching: I just attended cybersecurity
 trainings (most of my teaching is computer coding or data science--cybersecurity matters
 there), and attended Instructional Design and Technology (IDT)
 workshop on "Crafting the Learner-Centered  Syllabus" in 2024. 
 And I quite regularly read on teaching and mentoring advice, tips and tricks on
 nature.com, chronicle.com, and insidehighered.com.

One highllight is that the skills learned in my classes work in the real world:
 ``The classes I took with you are helping not only my scholarship, but my day
 job. Thank you [...] I greatly appreciate it.'' and ``subject: Received a Job
 Offer [...] I would like to thank you for all of the guidance and knowledge during all of
your data-related courses the past several semesters to help me get to the point
I am at today.'' and  ``since graduating I have continued to pursue more
projects in the coding world. Some analysis projects, business models, and even
some fun web apps and game designs. I appreciate all the help and motivation you
gave me in class as it helped me to really see what I can come up with from all
of the useful tools, how to plan and build on projects, and skills gained from
having you as my professor.''

And  students appreciate my approach and style:
``I am reaching out to explore the possibility of having you as my
graduate advisor. My experience in your Data Management course left a lasting
impression on me and I appreciated your approach and teaching style. I believe
your guidance would be invaluable in helping me navigate the academic journey
towards finishing my doctoral degree.'' and
``This is Teacher Appreciation Week and I just wanted to take a moment to say
thank you for all the hard work and dedication you put into teaching. Your
passion for education has inspired and impacted me in so many ways. Your
commitment to helping your students grow and learn is truly admirable. Thank you
for all that you do!'' and ``Please know
that I deeply appreciate everything you have done for me, and I recognize the
many ways you have helped me grow as a scholar and, frankly, as an agentic
person in general.  I am truly grateful for you.''

And my classes might have even contributed to retention in the program: ``"I have learnt so
much about my region is really unbelievable and I have enjoyed working with you
a lot. So much, I am actually considering STAYING in the program because of
you!''


fut


My feature teaching preference would be to continue with the classes I have
already taught, and there are plenty of them, over 10. My strength and preference is
data science classes, but also happiness class that aligns with my research. I
 have been also developing a new class ``social indicators'' that would be
broader than just happiness and include topics such as trust, freedom, and
meaning. This would also align with my editorial position at Social Indicators
Research journal.

I am interested in teaching short courses / microcredentials. I have already
taught a short GIS course (https://theaok.github.io/shortGIS/)
 twice, informally, for my colleagues from the department and other faculty from
Arts and Sciences, and for Walter Rand Institute. But I would like to teach more often
 and other short courses. There is an initiative to create
 Microcredentials and Digital Badges--I would like to participate in it.    



service


My service mostly builds on and derives from my main focus and strength,
research. I provide such service in two main ways: 1) to the
profession/scholarly field, and 2) to students.

I review about 3-4/mo or 36-48/year papers for journals, including the top
journals such as Journal of Personality and Social Psychology and Public
Administration Review (see CV for details).

Reviewing is an essential foundation of scholarly fields, and it is increasingly
in short supply--something I can attest as a journal editor.

 Since January 2024, I co-edit Social Indicators Research, the leading journal
 in my field of quality of life and wellbeing. My editorial
 philosophy is to be mentor and helper, not just gate-keeper--for instance, I am
 often in favor of revision prior to external review, and I try to guide the
 authors, especially the junior ones.

My research-oriented service over past 6 years 2020-2026 to students is:
published 10 peer-reviewed articles with students as co-authors (9
  published and 1 provisionally accepted/minor revisions), supervised 8
dissertations (4 graduated; 4 in-progress), served on 6 dissertation
committees, supervised 6 data science master theses, served on 2
master thesis committees in other social science, and supervised 15
independent studies. I have also led brown bag seminars and organized
a workshop on academic publishing.  

And I am very excited about bringing to campus an award
wining junior professor from Germany as a visiting scholar for 2 months in Fall 2026: Leonie
C. Steckermeier. Leonie is a productive scholar already benefiting 2 of
our doctoral students--we have monthly or so zoom meetings where we
are already working on papers.


I contribute service to the campus and department. Over 2018-2022 I
have lead the development of a new MS in data science and associated certificate program. This was a substantial undertaking and also somewhat challenging as the
newly created programs are located outside of my home department. I have
been serving since 2022 as a director for data science
certificate (See certificates at the bottom of the page:
https://graduateschool.camden.rutgers.edu/graduate-programs).

I am currently supervising 2 courtesy appointments as volunteer researchers in the department--they
 work with me on research but also helped students in my class.
 I frequently serve as either ad hoc chair or member on Advancement
 and Promotions (A\&P) committee. I find this
 service fulfilling. I contribute to promoting quality faculty in our
social sciences and I learn about my colleagues. Other committee
 service is enumerated in the CV.

While research-oriented service is my strength and passion, and usual campus and
departamental service is my duty, I am also mindful of
Rutgers-Camden public/community service/engagement mission. I agree
that as a public university, we also need to engage with and provide
service to the public and community.
 I have assisted a number of Rutgers-Camden students in their community
 projects over past 5 years serving as a faculty advisor for, for instance: 
 Olorunfunmi Adebajo's internship at the Camden County Community Development Office's
 Homelessness Assistance Unit, news item:
 https://patimes.org/from-research-to-county-strategy-how-negative-learning-shaped-camden-countys-shared-housing-innovation
 ; Marlo Rossi's project at Walter Rand Institute and other projects
 on abortion, news item:
 https://theconversation.com/abortion-laws-show-that-public-policy-doesnt-always-line-up-with-public-opinion-274699
 ;  and Ojobo Agbo Eje:   ``Camden Health Equity Data Visualization
 Initiative'' project, news item:
 https://camden.rutgers.edu/news/rutgers-camdens-urban-innovation-fund-fuels-transformative-community-projects
 
New Jersey first, but I have been civically engaged outside of the
Garden State as well. For instance, I have used my data management
skills to assist with data collection and management for Ohio Business
Round Table, and Michigan Economic Competitiveness Study. 



fut


In the ideal world, I would like to continue with research-oriented service. In
particular, I would like to increase my research group and co-author more with
students, and ideally postdocs. Chairing dissertations and leading independent
studies would be also my strength and preference. I'm happy to take on more
administrative duties such as co-editing another journal.  
