"This is a very sharply focused and original paper that will possibly
stir up quite a bit of response from other academics!  Whilst
divisions such as urban versus rural, moral versus immoral,
materialist versus anti-materialist, etc are crude, they are used here
as a useful starting point for work that could in a more polished
manner explore the place / geography of materialism and morality.
Fortunately, the authors seem very aware of the limitations of their
data but are still able to work with this to make their basic case for
'urban materialist immorality'."

n/a

"Table 2: where is the urban / rural variable? Where is this
cornerstone to the whole paper introduced?  Surely this needs to be
introduced explicitly?"

now it's "Table 6: Inependent variable definitions."--moved it to the
appendix as per other reviewers complains of too many tables; yes,
good point they were just put as original gss names xnorcsiz and
srcbelt, now clarified by adding "(urban-rural)"

also now added full gss codebook descriptions of these variables in appendix

now explicitly in the body of the paper right after discussing
dependent variables introduced the main independent variables

"Ultimately, how much is down to place (urben vs. rural) and how much
to the (selection of) people in them?"

 great question! with gss data we are unable to answer this
question properly, we believe that at least some of the effect is due
to urban rural as there are theoretical mechanisms or pathways
linking the two; still it is a limitation of these data and now
explicitly listed in limitations

"The English is clear but the style of writing is very stark in
places.  The sentences could often be a bit richer / more decorative,
although this is not essential as it is all understandable."

TODO made it less stark and more toned down

in addition moved some of the starkest parts into the appendix 

"In sum, I look forward to seeing this paper published as I think it
could stimulate some interesting debate."

n/a
