"Very interesting paper, good theoretical framework, comprehensive
 list of references. From the very first sentences, a reader gets
 feeling that urbanization is something bad and wrong leading to a
 number of unwanted consequences. Is that so bad? Maybe, but the authors could think of more neutral tone and connotation."

toned down

highlighted that initial evidence meant to spark more
research and debate

moven strongest statements to appendix

"I would strongly recommend to write an introduction. One may think
that the text before "1.Basic Theory" is introduction; however, this
material is more useful for theoretical part and there is no word on
topicality of the study, research questions or hypothesis. This must
be added. Why this study is so important? Why now?"

topicality of the study, research questions or hypothesis

Why this study is so important? Why now?"

done: added intro addressing all of these


"I also suggest to think of better theory structure which could guide
a reader more successfully through theoretical ideas starting from
early 20th century. This can be developed in different ways, for
example, the authors could show theoretical developments and their
changes regarding urbanization, immorality and materialism on the
basis of sociological schools of thought (as they refer to different
classics and contemporary writers) or time frame, etc."



indeed much of the theory  was not directly relevant
and distracting--hence it was moved to the appendix under
section 'auxiliary theory'--this also helps with toning it down as
some most stark and straight points were removed from the body of the
paper and put in the appendix

and theory from the begining was reincorporated in theory section

and moved around between sections so it flows better

relabelled headings from basic/short to more descriptive

and have 3 theory sections for clarity: start with basic on negative
side of urbanism; then specifically on pathways/mechanisms from
urbanism to materialism and immorality; and then last section on the most relevant and recent
study in the area


 added few signposts orienting reader better 


"Methodology is well described; however, more information is needed
about software used for analysis and procedures, research
ethics." 

done

"Exclusion of certain variables from the study did not
convinced me (page 4). Actually, religiosity or secularism might have
impact on some results."

A misunderstanding! We do control for religiosity! We just do not use
GSS items as further dependent variables, where it is ambigious whether a
variable measures morality or religiosity.

"Research data could be more described, analyzed and discussed in the
research part. Currently there is one massive table and few
paragraphs.

moved table with independent variables descriptions to appendix; made
regression tabes more concise by collapsing regions and religious
denominations to yes/no 

"Also in the conclusion part more discussion with references to previous studies can be added."

done

Good luck to authors!
